---
title: External Scientific Panel
description: External Scientific Panel
showHeader: false

---

## External Scientific Panel

{{< people img="Pavel-Pevzner-PhD.png" name="Pavel Pevzner, PhD" link="https://bioalgorithms.ucsd.edu/" desc="Pavel Pevzner, PhD, is the Ronald R. Taylor Chair and Distinguished Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at University of California, San Diego, where he directs the NIH Center for Computational Mass Spectrometry. He holds Ph.D. from Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology in Russia. His research focuses on genome sequencing, immunoproteogenomics, antibiotics sequencing, comparative genomics and computational technologies. He is known for creating applications that allow scientists to solve biological problems. He was named Howard Hughes Medical Institute Professor in 2006. He was elected to the Association for Computing Machinery Fellow (2010) for “contribution to algorithms for genome rearrangements, DNA sequencing, and proteomics.”">}}
{{< br >}}
{{< people img="Matt-Lebo-PhD-FACMG.png" name="Matt Lebo, PhD, FACMG" link="https://personalizedmedicine.partners.org/About/Leadership-Team/Matthew-Lebo.aspx>" desc="Matt Lebo, PhD, FACMG, joined Partners Personalized Medicine as an Assistant Laboratory Director for the Laboratory for Molecular Medicine in 2011 following the completion of his ABMG molecular genetics fellowship training at the Harvard Medical School Genetics Training Program. Dr. Lebo became the head of Bioinformatics at Partners Personalized Medicine and Associate Laboratory Director for the Laboratory for Molecular Medicine in the fall of 2013. In 2018, he became the Director of the Laboratory for Molecular Medicine.">}}
{{< br >}}
{{< people img="Sandra-Soo-Jin-Lee-Ph.D.png" name="Sandra Soo-Jin Lee, Ph.D" link="https://www.mhe.cuimc.columbia.edu/profile/sandra-s-lee-phd>" desc="Sandra Soo-Jin Lee, Ph.D is Chief of the Division of Ethics and faculty in the Department of Medical Humanities and Ethics at Columbia University. Dr. Lee leads NIH funded multidisciplinary studies of the sociocultural dimensions and ethical issues in genomics, precision medicine, artificial intelligence and team science, with a focus on race, diversity and equity. She is Co-Principal Investigator of the CERA, the Center for the Ethical, Legal and Social Implications Resources and Analysis and is a Hastings Center Fellow. Dr. Lee currently serves on both the Scientific and Bioethics Advisory Boards of the Kaiser Permanente National Research Biobank and the NIH/NHGRI Genomics and Society Working Group. Dr. Lee received her doctorate from the UC Berkeley/UCSF joint program in Medical Anthropology and her undergraduate degree in Human Biology from Stanford University.">}}
{{< br >}}
{{< people img="Deana-Church-PhD.jpeg" name="Deanna Church, PhD" link="https://www.linkedin.com/in/deanna-church-a8749513/" desc="Deanna Church, PhD, is currently, the Senior Director of Mammalian Applications at Inscripta, Inc. Her previous work included Senior Director of Software Applications at 10X Genomics where she led a team of multidisciplinary scientists focused on improving genome and Senior Director of Genome Content at Personalis, Inc, where she led a team focusing on genome analysis and variant interpretation. Prior to working in the biotech industry, Dr. Church was a senior member of NCBI where her work focused on the coordinating of variation resources, helping build the human and mouse reference assemblies, and building infrastructure for web-based genome analysis tools. She has more than 35 publications, many of which focus on the human reference.">}}
{{< br >}}
{{< people img="Martin-Hirst.png" name="Martin Hirst" link="https://www.bcgsc.ca/people/martin-hirst>" desc="Martin Hirst, is a Senior Scientist and Head of Epigenomics at Canada’s Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre at BC Cancer, Associate Professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology and Associate Director of the Michael Smith Laboratory at the University of British Columbia (UBC). His research focuses on understanding epigenetic dysfunction in cancer by developing experimental and computational tools. Over the last decade, he has led epigenomic research program at BC Cancer and UBC. He also leads the Centre of Epigenomic Mapping Technologies (CEMT) that represents one of two Canadian epigenomic mapping centres funded by the Canadian Epigenetics, Environment and Health Research Consortium (CEEHRC).">}}
